We're nearing the end there's one more advanced concept though not difficult to implement but one advanced
concept I want to cover.
Let's go back to our application and to really show what I mean.
Let me set off to true so that we can go to new post again.
Now you've seen you post can be loaded.
And let's go to the Network tab and the developer tools there.
If we have a look at all the requests once we load the page.
So we're going to posts you see that we're loading this bundle J as follows.
This contains all our source code.
And here is relatively big because we're in development mode.
It will be much smaller ones who are shipping to us for production.
It's optimized power build workflow automatically then we'll talk about this later when we deployed.
Yep still loading the entire bundle with all the code of our application up front can be bad if we have
a big application with distinct features and distinct areas and tiap where a user might never wizards
a certain area like an hour app we have the posts.
If the user never wins it's new post loading the code responsible for that component.
Doesn't make a lot of sense if we have a look at our routes.
I'm talking about the new post component here.
This should only be loaded if the user actually navigates to slash new posts.
Otherwise new posts and all potential children are never needed.
So why should we download de-code up front would be better to not download it and hence have a smaller
upfront chunk to download and instead download de-code responsible for this component and its children
when needed.
Now for a tiny application as ours here this is not super useful because making that extra request for
one kilobyte or something.
What this component is worth when it comes to its size.
That's not super useful but it is useful to know this technique for real for bigger applications you
are building where does might matter where you are downloading quite a bit.
The technique of downloading only what you need is known as code splitting or lazy loading.
And there you would essentially want to make sure that in your component you're only loading the component
once you need it.
How does this work to implement code splitting or lazy loading with create re-act app and re-act route
or forth.
And that's important.
This technique will work for re-act Robert Ford and for create react at.
Because code splitting depends heavily on the WePay configuration you are using.
It is an advanced concept after all.
So the way I'm showing you is the way it works with the config from create re-act app which is a pretty
modern and good configuration though so chances are it also works in any decently set up WePay project
or as I said at the beginning of this course.
I strongly recommend using create re-act them anyways.
So for this to work in this setup we need a higher order component.
So let's create a new folder Agios see and then they all add a new component which will name a sync
component async component.
J.S..
That's the javascript file name because this component or this code here should help me load a component
asynchronously i.e. only when it's needed.
Now here in this async component file I will create a new consonantal function the end which will name
a sync component.
There I expect to get my import component argument which will in the end be a function and I'll come
back to how to use this async component function and what to pass here exactly over the next seconds.
So there I now need to return something and I will return a class here which extends component.
So a normal re-act component.
Therefore I need to import react because it will also use some GSX and component from re-act now in
the body of that class here.
I now of course also need a render method.
But before we come to this I'll set up a state and there are one to have a state which with a component
property which is now does state here does component property will be set to the dynamically loaded
component and the code for this will get implemented in component.
Date MT.
So once this component was mounted here this wrapping higher order component.
No as I said import component should be a function reference in the end.
So what I want to do is I want to execute import component here and this actually will be a function
which will return as a promise.
I notice because I know who I am how I'm going to use this async component in the function of this.
Then block will get an argument CMPD maybe the name is up to you which will have one property default
which will be the component we loaded dynamically.
So in this then lock I can call this set state and set my component states to CMPD default this is the
case due to be set up we're using here with create react.
It is all of course heavily reliant on the type of function import component will refer to and which
I'll show you in the next minutes.
As I said no worries.
So now at some point of time we will have loaded the actual component we want to use and it will be
stored in our state hence the render method we want to render it all treat a constant name it's C and
this should be this state component.
Then I want to return GSX and this render method and I'll check if C is set in a turn every expression.
If it is set then I'll render C as a normal re-act component.
I'll use this this prop's spreads trickier to pass any problem we might need to this component and also
set it to know if c is not set yet.
So if the component hasn't been resolved yet of course I now also need to export this async component
function here.
Now we can save this fall and now we can go back to the block component where we do import new posts.
I want to load this dynamically now.
Now the thing is when ever you are importing something like this here with import something from somewhere
you basically Inforum Westpac DB built tool which gets you was behind the scenes about this dependency
and it will include it in the global bundle does its job.
Now for a lazy loading this is exactly the opposite of what we want to do.
We don't want to include it in the bundle.
We want to load it when needed.
Still wet pack needs to be able to dynamically prepare some extra pandal for this potentially loaded
code.
So what we have to do is we have to comment out this old way of importing and instead will create a
new constant Witchell name async new host the name of course is up to you.
This will now use this new async component function we created in O C folder.
So all import sync component from.
And now all move up to the HAMC folder and imported from that async component file.
And I'll then use async components you're and execute it.
Now async component this function requires an argument and I told you that this argument in that function
we named it import component that this argument should be a function which is why we executed like one
hearing component at Mt..
So we have to pass some function to async component and this should be an anonymous function.
I'm using as 6 Erol function here.
The interesting part is what we return in this function.
And keep in mind if you write it in one line whatever comes right of the error is immediately returned.
If you use curly braces you need to return something with the return keyword.
So I'm going to take a longer approach.
They're all used to import keyword as a function.
This is a special syntax.
The dynamic import syntax which means whatever comes between the parentheses here is only important
when that function here is executed and that function here will only be executed once we render async.
You post to the screen.
So here I didn't take my original lbf to new post and now I'm only importing this when this constant
gets used somewhere.
Now of course I want to use it somewhere.
I want to use it down at the bottom of my block container at the new post route instead of using new
post as a component.
I want to use async new post as a component.
Eventually this will be a component because keep in mind async component returns a component.
We have a higher order component.
It returns a class with a render method.
So this is a valid component.
This component will eventually render some dynamically loaded component and we decide which component
should be with the function we passed to async component.
Now if we save this and we go back to our application watched up hard on the bottom right.
When I click on new post once I click there you'll see that as one chunk as follows.
Loaded which is very small.
This is the extra web page created because whilst bundling our code it detected this dynamic syntax
here which it knows due to our set up we're using to build workflow setup and therefore it created the
extra bandwidth a new post component and all potential child components that were exclusive to that
component if any.
But it didn't add it to the main bundle.
Instead it's prepared to load it when needed.
When we actually include async new post which we only do when navigating to slash new post daises how
you load components asynchronously.
And as I mentioned this is extremely useful in bigger apps where there are bigger chunks of code a whole
feature area in your application for example which might not even be visited by the user so you can
save that code up front to only load it when needed.